## Leading Question 

What is the most efficient way to traverse the United States by road? Given a starting and ending intersection, find the shortest route between the two nodes. Additionally, what is an efficient route for visiting several nodes in any order?

## Dataset Acquisition

The dataset we are using is called North America Road Network’s Nodes and North America Road Networks’ Edges. Though we are planning to use whole datasets instead of a subset, if we encounter issues later due to size, we will make adjustments.
North America Road Network’s Nodes: (https://www.cs.utah.edu/~lifeifei/research/tpq/NA.cnode) 
North America Road Networks’ Edges: (https://www.cs.utah.edu/~lifeifei/research/tpq/NA.cedge) 


### Data format

First dataset consists of 175812 rows stored as txt file with 3 columns (Node ID, Normalized X Coordinate, Normalized Y Coordinate). For second dataset consists of 179178 rows stored as txt file with 4 columns (Edge ID, Start Node ID, End Node ID, L2 Distance). 

### Data correction

Data parsing can be done with a generic csv parser. Any nodes in the dataset that are outside the bounds of north america can be considered bad data and deleted.


### Data storage

We will use an adjacency list to store the graph for our algorithms. This data structure is efficient for traversal. Total storage cost is O(nodes + edges).


## Graph Algorithm 

We are probably going to (potentially) use Djikstra’s algorithm O(V + E log (V)) (or some other more optimal shortest path algorithm, we will determine which one exactly later on as it will depend on our exact use case) to determine the shortest path between two points in our road network. For the visiting several nodes algorithm, we will have to do more research on efficient traveling salesman algorithms.

### Function Inputs

Project Plan (Main Functions as of 3/25/2022):

Shortest Path:

As of right now, our planned inputs for the main part of our final project will be two points/nodes (in North America) that we try to find the shortest path in between. This function should return the actual path taken.

Pseudo Traveling Salesman:

Given a list or vector of nodes, return a path (not necessarily a shortest one, but realistically should be close to the optimal path) that visits all nodes and ends at the starting node.

Visualizing the Path:

After we have finished implementing the shortest path and the pseudo traveling salesman part of the project, if we have enough time, we plan on creating a way to visualize the path generated by creating an image (that represents a map) and maybe outlining the path taken in green or red. 


### Function Efficiency 

Since this dataset is quite large and contains a lot of nodes and edges, we will need to have a fairly fast algorithm to determine the shortest path between two nodes. Additionally, our representation of the entire graph will have to be memory efficient. For the shortest path algorithm the worst case complexity is O(edges + vertices * log(vertices)). The traveling salesman problem is NP hard, but algorithms for a good but not optimal path are polynomial time. We will have to do more research on efficient algorithms, but nothing slower than O((edges + vertices)^2) will be possible on our dataset.


## Timeline
We have already downloaded the target datasets and uploaded them to the github repository inside a folder named data. 

Tasks:
	Task 1 (4/2/2022): Parse the dataset into an adjacency list
	Task 2 (4/9/2022): Implement the shortest path algorithm
Task 3 (4/20/2022): Implement the approximate traveling salesman algorithm
	Task 4 (4/30/2022): Create some sort of visualization for shortest path / traveling salesman
	Task 5 (5/4/2022): Finish the project presentation
